Next.js/Gatsby Migration guides to Astro (#2211)
withastro/docs: src/pages/en/guides/migrate-to-astro/from-nextjs.mdx

- Astro has support for NPM packages, including several for React. You may be able to keep some or all of your existing React components and dependencies.

## Key Differences between Next.js and Astro

When you rebuild your Next.js site in Astro, you will notice some important differences:

- [MPA vs SPA](/en/concepts/mpa-vs-spa/): Next.js is a React-based SPA (single-page application). Astro sites are multi-page apps built using `.astro` components, but can also support React, Preact, Vue.js, Svelte, SolidJS, AlpineJS, Lit and raw HTML templating.

- [Astro components](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/) are not written as exported functions that return page templating. Instead, you'll split your code into a "code fence" and a body exclusively for the HTML you generate.

- [Content-focus](/en/concepts/why-astro/): Astro was designed primarily for content-focused sites. An existing Next.js app might be built for high client-side interactivity and may include items that are difficult to replicate in Astro, such as dashboards.

> ## Convert your Project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Convert your Next.js Project
```

   
    Astro uses the `public/` directory for static assets, just like Next. There is no change needed to this folder, nor its contents.

2. **Copy or Move** Next's other files and folders (e.g. `pages`, `styles` etc.) into Astro's `src/` folder as you rebuild your site, following [Astro's project structure](/en/core-concepts/project-structure/).

    Like Next, Astro's `src/pages/` folder is a special folder used for file-based routing. All other folders are optional, and you can organize the contents of your `src/` folder any way you like. Other common folders in Astro projects include `src/layouts/`, `src/components`, `src/styles`, `src/scripts`.

### Repurpose config file

Astro has a configuration file at the root of your project called [`astro.config.mjs`](/en/guides/configuring-astro/). This is used only for configuring your Astro project and any installed integrations, including [SSR adapters](/en/guides/deploy/).

### Convert JSX files to `.astro` files

Here are some tips for converting a Next `.js` component into a `.astro` component:

1. Use the returned JSX of the existing Next.js component function as the basis for your HTML template.

> 2. Change any [Next or JSX syntax to Astro](#reference-convert-nextjs-syntax-to-astro) (e.g. `<Link>`, `<Script>`, `{children}`, `className`, inline style objects) or to HTML web standards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Change any [Next or JSX syntax to Astro](#reference-convert-nextjs-syntax-to-astro) or to HTML web standards. This includes `<Link>`, `<Script>`, `{children}`, and `className`, for example.
```

<header>
    <nav>
        <ul>
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <slot name="navItems"/>
        </ul>
    </nav>
	<slot/>
</header>
```

See more about [specific `<slot />` usage in Astro](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#slots).

### Next Data Fetching to Astro

Convert any instances of `getStaticProps()` to `Astro.glob()` or `getCollections()` to access data from other files in your project source. To fetch external data, use `fetch()`.

These data requests are made in the frontmatter of the Astro component using the data, and use top-level await.

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';

// Get all `src/content/blog/` entries
const allBlogPosts = await getCollection('blog');

// Get all `src/pages/posts/` entries
const allPosts = await Astro.glob('../pages/posts/*.md');

const response = await fetch('https://randomuser.me/api/');
const data = await response.json();
const randomUser = data.results[0];
---
```

See more about [local files imports with `Astro.glob()`](/en/guides/imports/#astroglob) or [fetching remote data](/en/guides/data-fetching/).

### Next Styling to Astro

> Convert any inline style objects (`style = {{fontWeight: "bold", }}`) to inline HTML style attributes (`style="font-weight:bold;"`). Or, use an Astro `<style>` tag for scoped CSS styles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Convert any inline style objects (`style={{fontWeight: "bold" }}`) to inline HTML style attributes (`style="font-weight:bold;"`). Or, use an Astro `<style>` tag for scoped CSS styles.
```

title: Migrating from Next.js
description: Tips for migrating an existing Next.js project to Astro
layout: ~/layouts/MigrationLayout.astro
stub: false
framework: Next.js
---
import AstroJSXTabs from '~/components/tabs/AstroJSXTabs.astro'
import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro'

Here are some key concepts and migration strategies to help you get started. Use the rest of our docs and our [Discord community](https://astro.build/chat) to keep going!

## Key Similarities between Next.js and Astro

Next.js and Astro share some similarities that will help you migrate your project:

- The [syntax of `.astro` files is similar to JSX](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#differences-between-astro-and-jsx). Writing Astro should feel familiar.

> - Astro projects can also be SSG or [SSR with page level prerendering](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/#prerendering).

Reviewer 2: In case it is in fact "page-level", we also need to change here.
```suggestion
- Astro projects can also be SSG or [SSR with page-level prerendering](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/#prerendering).
```

- Astro has support for [installing NPM packages](/en/guides/imports/#npm-packages), including React libraries. You may be able to keep some or all of your existing React components and dependencies.

## Key Differences between Next.js and Astro

When you rebuild your Next.js site in Astro, you will notice some important differences:

- [MPA vs SPA](/en/concepts/mpa-vs-spa/): Next.js is a React-based SPA (single-page application). Astro sites are multi-page apps built using `.astro` components, but can also support React, Preact, Vue.js, Svelte, SolidJS, AlpineJS, Lit, and raw HTML templating.

- [Astro components](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/) are not written as exported functions that return page templating. Instead, you'll split your code into a "code fence" and a body exclusively for the HTML you generate.

- [Content-focus](/en/concepts/why-astro/): Astro was designed primarily for content-focused sites. An existing Next.js app might be built for high client-side interactivity and may include items that are difficult to replicate in Astro, such as dashboards.

## Convert your Next.js Project

> Each project migration will look different. But, there are some common steps you will need to get your new Astro site up and running.
> 
> Even after following these instructions, you probably won't have your new Astro site exactly the way you want it yet. But, this page will get you started in the right direction.

Reviewer 3: These two introductions are similar enough to combine:
```suggestion
Each project migration will look different, but there are some common steps  to follow when converting from Next.js to Astro. This page will get you started in the right direction.
```

### Create a new Astro project

Use the `create astro` command for your package manager to launch Astro's CLI wizard or choose a community theme from the [Astro Theme Showcase](https://astro.build/themes). 

You can also pass a `--template` argument to the `create astro` command to start from an existing Astro repository on GitHub:

  <PackageManagerTabs>
    <Fragment slot="npm">
    ```shell
    # launch the Astro CLI Wizard 
    npm create astro@latest

    # start from any existing repo
    npm create astro -- --template <github-username>/<github-repo>
    ```
    </Fragment>
    <Fragment slot="pnpm">
    ```shell
    # launch the Astro CLI Wizard 
    pnpm create astro@latest

    # start from any existing repo
    pnpm create astro --template <github-username>/<github-repo>
    ```
    </Fragment>
    <Fragment slot="yarn">
    ```shell
    # launch the Astro CLI Wizard 
    yarn create astro@latest

    # start from any existing repo
    yarn create astro --template <github-username>/<github-repo>
    ```
    </Fragment>
  </PackageManagerTabs>

Then, copy your existing Next project files over to your new Astro project in a separate folder outside of `src`.

:::tip

> Prefer to explore in your browser instead? Visit https://astro.new for a variety of starter templates that can be opened and edited in StackBlitz, CodeSandbox or Gitpod.

Reviewer 2: Serial comma
```suggestion
Prefer to explore in your browser instead? Visit https://astro.new for a variety of starter templates that can be opened and edited in StackBlitz, CodeSandbox, or Gitpod.
```

:::

### Install integrations (optional)

You may find it useful to install some of [Astro's optional integrations](/en/guides/integrations-guide/) to use while converting your Next project to Astro:

- **@astrojs/react**: to reuse some existing React UI components in your new Astro site, or keep writing with React components.

- **@astrojs/image**: to replace Next's Image plugin with Astro's own image-optimizing components. (Experimental: works in `.astro` and `.mdx` files only.)

- **@astrojs/mdx**: to bring existing MDX files from your Next project, or to use MDX in your new Astro site.

### Put your source code in `src`

> 
> 1. **Keep** Next's `public/` folder untouched. 
>    
>     Astro uses the `public/` directory for static assets, just like Next. There is no change needed to this folder, nor its contents.
> 
> 2. **Copy or Move** Next's other files and folders (e.g. `pages`, `styles` etc.) into Astro's `src/` folder as you rebuild your site, following [Astro's project structure](/en/core-concepts/project-structure/).

Reviewer 3: Both steps 1 and 2 "follow Astro's project structure".
```suggestion
Following [Astro's project structure](/en/core-concepts/project-structure/):

1. **Keep** Next's `public/` folder untouched. 
   
    Astro uses the `public/` directory for static assets, just like Next. There is no change needed to this folder, nor its contents.

2. **Copy or Move** Next's other files and folders (e.g. `pages`, `styles` etc.) into Astro's `src/` folder as you rebuild your site, following [Astro's project structure](/en/core-concepts/project-structure/).
```

    Like Next, Astro's `src/pages/` folder is a special folder used for file-based routing. All other folders are optional, and you can organize the contents of your `src/` folder any way you like. Other common folders in Astro projects include `src/layouts/`, `src/components`, `src/styles`, `src/scripts`.

> ### Repurpose config file

Reviewer 3: If we aren't providing specific guidance for converting a Next config to an Astro one, I'd just call this section 

```suggestion
### The Astro config file
```

Astro has a configuration file at the root of your project called [`astro.config.mjs`](/en/guides/configuring-astro/). This is used only for configuring your Astro project and any installed integrations, including [SSR adapters](/en/guides/deploy/).

### Convert JSX files to `.astro` files

Here are some tips for converting a Next `.js` component into a `.astro` component:

1. Use the returned JSX of the existing Next.js component function as the basis for your HTML template.

2. Change any [Next or JSX syntax to Astro](#reference-convert-nextjs-syntax-to-astro) or to HTML web standards. This includes `<Link>`, `<Script>`, `{children}`, and `className`, for example.

1. Move any necessary JavaScript, including import statements, into a ["code fence" (`---`)](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#the-component-script). Note: JavaScript to [conditionally render content](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#dynamic-html) is often written inside the HTML template directly in Astro.

4. Use [`Astro.props`](/en/reference/api-reference/#astroprops) to access any additional props that were previously passed to your Next function.

> 4. Decide whether any imported components also need to be converted to Astro. With the official integration installed, you can [use existing React components in your Astro file](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/). But, you may want to convert them to Astro, especially if they do not need to be interactive!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Decide whether any imported components also need to be converted to Astro. With the official integration installed, you can [use existing React components in your Astro file](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/). But, you may want to convert them to `.astro` components, especially if they do not need to be interactive!
```

		<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
		<meta name="generator" content={Astro.generator} />
		<title>Astro</title>
	</head>
	<body>
    <!-- Wrap the slot element with your existing layout templating -->
		<slot />
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Migrating from Next.js' `pages` directory

Your Next project may have a `pages/_document.jsx` file that imports React components to customize your app's `<head>`:

```jsx title="pages/_document.jsx"
import Document, { Html, Head, Main, NextScript } from "next/document";

export default class MyDocument extends Document {
  render() {
    return (
      <Html lang="en">
        <Head>
          <link rel="icon" href="/favicon.ico" />
        </Head>
        <body>
          <Main />
          <NextScript />
        </body>
      </Html>
    );
  }
}
```

1. Make a new Astro layout file using only the returned JSX.

2. Replace any React components with `<html>`, `<head>`, `<slot>`, and other HTML standard tags.

```astro title="src/layouts/Document.astro"
<html lang="en">
	<head>
	    <link rel="icon" href="/favicon.ico" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<slot/>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Migrating from Next.js' `/app` directory

> Next.js' `app/` directory layout files are created with two files: a `layout.jsx` file to customize the `<html>` and `<body>` contents, and a `body.jsx` file to customize the `<head>` element contents.

Reviewer 3: This says `body.jsx`, but the code snippet says `head.jsx`.

> Next.js' `app/` directory layout files are created with two files: a `layout.jsx` file to customize the `<html>` and `<body>` contents, and a `body.jsx` file to customize the `<head>` element contents.

Reviewer 3: This says `body.jsx`, but the code snippet says `head.jsx`.

```suggestion
Next.js' `app/` directory layout files are created with two files: a `layout.jsx` file to customize the `<html>` and `<body>` contents, and a `head.jsx` file to customize the `<head>` element contents.
```

```jsx title="app/layout.jsx"
export default function Layout({ children }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <body>{children}</body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

```jsx title="app/head.jsx"
export default function Head() {
  return (
    <>
      <title>My Page</title>
    </>
  );
}
```

1. Make a new Astro layout file using only the returned JSX.

2. Replace both these files with a single Astro layout file that contains a page shell (`<html>`, `<head>`, and `<body>` tags) and a `<slot/>` instead of React's `{children}` prop:

```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro"
<html lang="en">
	<head>
	    <title>My Page</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<slot/>
	</body>
</html>
```

### Migrating Pages and Posts

In Next.js, your posts either live in `/pages` or `/app/routeName/page.jsx`.

> In Astro, **all your page content must live within `src/`**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In Astro, **all your page content must live within `src/`**, in either `src/pages` or `src/content`.
```
This makes it clear that you're not just dropping them in the root of the source, and also primes you to expect two ways to store Astro pages.

#### React pages

Your existing Next JSX (`.js`) pages will need to be [converted from JSX files to `.astro` pages](#convert-jsx-files-to-astro-files). You cannot use an existing JSX page file in Astro.

These [`.astro` pages](/en/core-concepts/pages/) must be located within `src/pages/` and will have page routes generated automatically based on their file path.

#### Markdown and MDX pages

Astro has built-in support for Markdown and an optional integration for MDX files. You can reuse any existing [Markdown and MDX files](/en/guides/markdown-content/), but they may require some adjustments to their frontmatter, such as adding [Astro's special `layout` frontmatter property](/en/core-concepts/layouts/#markdownmdx-layouts). You will no longer need to manually create pages for each Markdown-generated route. These files can be placed within `src/pages/` to take advantage of automatic file-based routing.

> When part of a [content collection](/en/guides/content-collections/), Markdown and MDX files will live in folders within `src/content/` and you will [generate those pages dynamically](/en/guides/content-collections/#generating-pages-from-content-collections).

Reviewer 3: I don't think this does enough to explain what a content collection is, especially since there's no equivalent in Next. Maybe something like:

```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use [content collections](/en/guides/content-collections/) to store structured content, such as shop items that all have the same set of properties. When part of a content collection Markdown and MDX files will live in folders within `src/content/`. You will retrieve the content yourself and [generate pages dynamically](/en/guides/content-collections/#generating-pages-from-content-collections).
```

### Migrating Tests

As Astro outputs raw HTML, it is possible to write end-to-end tests using the output of the build step. Any end-to-end tests written previously might work out-of-the-box if you have been able to match the markup of your Next site. Testing libraries such as Jest and React Testing Library can be imported and used in Astro to test your React components.

See Astro's [testing guide](/en/guides/testing/) for more.

## Reference: Convert Next.js Syntax to Astro

### Next Links to Astro

Convert any Next `<Link to="">`, `<NavLink>` etc. components to HTML `<a href="">` tags. 

```astro del={1} ins={2}
<Link to="/blog">Blog</Link>
<a href="/blog">Blog</a>
```

> Astro does not use any special component for links, although you are welcome to build custom link components. You can then import and use this `<Link>` just as you would any other component.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Astro does not use any special component for links, although you are welcome to build your own `<Link>` component. You can then import and use this `<Link>` just as you would any other component.
```

```astro title="src/components/Link.astro"
---
const { to } = Astro.props
---
<a href={to}><slot /></a>
```

### Next Imports to Astro

> If necessary, update any [file imports](/en/guides/imports/) to reference relative file paths exactly. This can be done using [import aliases](/en/guides/typescript/#import-aliases), or by writing out a relative path in full. 

Reviewer 3: Rather than "if necessary", we can spell out when it is necessary (I'm not sure from reading this)

Note that `.astro` and several other file types must be imported with their full file extension.

```astro title="src/pages/authors/Fred.astro"
---
import Card from `../../components/Card.astro`
---
<Card />
```

### Next Children Props to Astro

Convert any instances of `{children}` to an Astro `<slot />`. Astro does not need to receive `{children}` as a function prop and will automatically render child content in a `<slot />`.

```astro title="src/components/MyComponent" del={3-9} ins={11-13}
---
---
export default function MyComponent(props) { 
    return (
      <div>
        {props.children}
      </div>
    );  
}

<div>
  <slot />
</div>
```

React components that pass multiple sets of children can be migrated to an Astro component using [named slots](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#named-slots).

See more about [specific `<slot />` usage in Astro](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#slots).

### Next Data Fetching to Astro

Convert any instances of `getStaticProps()` to `Astro.glob()` or `getCollections()` to access data from other files in your project source. To [fetch remote data](/en/guides/data-fetching/), use `fetch()`.

> These data requests are made in the frontmatter of the Astro component using the data, and use top-level await.

Reviewer 2: This sentence felt a bit odd to me, probably because of the double "use" verb, maybe changing a bit works?
```suggestion
These data requests are made in the frontmatter of the Astro component using the data with top-level await.
```

> These data requests are made in the frontmatter of the Astro component using the data, and use top-level await.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These data requests are made in the frontmatter of the Astro component and use top-level await.
```

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';

// Get all `src/content/blog/` entries
const allBlogPosts = await getCollection('blog');

// Get all `src/pages/posts/` entries
const allPosts = await Astro.glob('../pages/posts/*.md');

const response = await fetch('https://randomuser.me/api/');
const data = await response.json();
const randomUser = data.results[0];
---
```

See more about [local files imports with `Astro.glob()`](/en/guides/imports/#astroglob) or [querying using the Collections API]([fetching remote data](/en/guides/data-fetching/)).

### Next Styling to Astro

Convert any inline style objects (`style={{fontWeight: "bold"}}`) to inline HTML style attributes (`style="font-weight:bold;"`). Or, use an Astro `<style>` tag for scoped CSS styles.

```jsx title="src/components/Card.jsx"
<div style={{backgroundColor: `#f4f4f4`, padding: `1em`}}>{message}</div>
```

```astro title="src/components/Card.astro"
<div style="background-color: #f4f4f4; padding: 1em;">{message}</div>
```

> You may also need to replace any CSS-in-JS libraries (e.g. styled components) with other available CSS options in Astro.

Reviewer 2: Follow-up to the styled-components question
```suggestion
You may also need to replace any CSS-in-JS libraries (e.g. styled-components) with other available CSS options in Astro.
```

> Tailwind is supported after installing the [Tailwind integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/tailwind/). No changes to your code required!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tailwind is supported after installing the [Tailwind integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/tailwind/). No changes to your code are required!
```

> You may also need to replace any CSS-in-JS libraries (e.g. styled-components) with other available CSS options in Astro.

Reviewer 3: Worth linking to [this helpful issue](https://github.com/withastro/astro/issues/4432)?

    }
}
```

2. Create `src/pages/index.astro`

Use the return value of the Next function. Convert any Next or React syntax to Astro, including changing the case of any [HTML global attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes).

Note that:

- `.map` just works!

- `className` becomes `class`.

- `<Link>` becomes `<a>`.

- The `<> </>` fragment is not required in Astro templating.

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro" "class" "</a>" "<a"
---
---
<ul class="plain-list pokeList">
    {pokemons.map((pokemon) => (
        <li class="pokemonListItem" key={pokemon.name}>
            <a class="pokemonContainer" href={`/pokemon/${pokemon.name}`}>
                <p class="pokemonId">No. {pokemon.id}</p>
                <img class="pokemonImage" src={`https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PokeAPI/sprites/master/sprites/pokemon/${pokemon.id}.png`} alt={`${pokemon.name} picture`}/>
                <h2 class="pokemonName">{pokemon.name}</h2>
            </a>
        </li>
    ))}
</ul>
```

3. Add any needed imports, props and JavaScript

Note that:

- the `getStaticProps` function is no longer needed. Data from the API is fetched directly in the code fence.

> - A `<Layout>` component is imported, and wraps the page templating.

Reviewer 2: nitpick: unnecessary comma
```suggestion
- A `<Layout>` component is imported and wraps the page templating.
```

```astro ins={2,4-16,19,31} title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
import Layout from '../layouts/layout.astro';

const res = await fetch("https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon?limit=151");
const resJson = await res.json();
const pokemons = resJson.results.map(pokemon => {
    const name = pokemon.name;
    // https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon/1/
    const url = pokemon.url;
    const id = url.split("/")[url.split("/").length - 2];
    return {
        name,
        url,
        id
    }
});
---

<Layout>
  <ul class="plain-list pokeList">
      {pokemons.map((pokemon) => (
          <li class="pokemonListItem" key={pokemon.name}>
              <a class="pokemonContainer" href={`/pokemon/${pokemon.name}`}>
                  <p class="pokemonId">No. {pokemon.id}</p>
                  <img class="pokemonImage" src={`https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PokeAPI/sprites/master/sprites/pokemon/${pokemon.id}.png`} alt={`${pokemon.name} picture`}/>
                  <h2 class="pokemonName">{pokemon.name}</h2>
              </a>
          </li>
      ))}
  </ul>
</Layout>
```

{/* 
### Next dynamic routing to Astro

> This is a Next.js dynamic routing page (`pages/pokemon/[name].js`) that generates a detail screen for each of the first 151 Pokémon using [the REST PokéAPI](https://pokeapi.co/).

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this paragraph meant "details screen" or "detailed screen", both seem to work here.
```suggestion
This is a Next.js dynamic routing page (`pages/pokemon/[name].js`) that generates a detailed screen for each of the first 151 Pokémon using [the REST PokéAPI](https://pokeapi.co/).
```
```suggestion
This is a Next.js dynamic routing page (`pages/pokemon/[name].js`) that generates a details screen for each of the first 151 Pokémon using [the REST PokéAPI](https://pokeapi.co/).
```

Here's how to recreate that in `src/pages/pokemon/[name].astro`, also using `getStaticPaths()` in Astro.

**[tl/dr]:**
1. Identify the return().
2. Convert JSX to Astro by replacing Next or React syntax with Astro/HTML syntax.

> 3. Add any needed JavaScript, props, imports.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Add any needed imports, props, and JavaScript
```

> {/* 

Reviewer 3: I like having a `getStaticPaths` migration example!

title: Migrating from Next.js
description: Tips for migrating an existing Next.js project to Astro
layout: ~/layouts/MigrationLayout.astro
stub: false
framework: Next.js
---
import AstroJSXTabs from '~/components/tabs/AstroJSXTabs.astro'
import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro'

Here are some key concepts and migration strategies to help you get started. Use the rest of our docs and our [Discord community](https://astro.build/chat) to keep going!

## Key Similarities between Next.js and Astro

Next.js and Astro share some similarities that will help you migrate your project:

- The [syntax of `.astro` files is similar to JSX](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#differences-between-astro-and-jsx). Writing Astro should feel familiar.
- Astro projects can also be SSG or [SSR with page-level prerendering](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/#prerendering).
- Astro uses file-based routing, and [allows specially named pages to create dynamic routes](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes).

> - Astro is [component-based](/en/core-concepts/components/), and your markup structure will be similar before and after your migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Astro is [component-based](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/), and your markup structure will be similar before and after your migration.
```

```jsx title="app/layout.jsx"
export default function Layout({ children }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <body>{children}</body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

```jsx title="app/head.jsx"
export default function Head() {
  return (
    <>
      <title>My Page</title>
    </>
  );
}
```

1. Make a new Astro layout file using only the returned JSX.

2. Replace both these files with a single Astro layout file that contains a page shell (`<html>`, `<head>`, and `<body>` tags) and a `<slot/>` instead of React's `{children}` prop:

```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro"
<html lang="en">
	<head>
	    <title>My Page</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<slot/>
	</body>
</html>
```

### Migrating Pages and Posts

In Next.js, your posts either live in `/pages` or `/app/routeName/page.jsx`.

In Astro, **all your page content must live within `src/`**, in either `src/pages` or `src/content`.

#### React pages

Your existing Next JSX (`.js`) pages will need to be [converted from JSX files to `.astro` pages](#convert-jsx-files-to-astro-files). You cannot use an existing JSX page file in Astro.

> These [`.astro` pages](/en/core-concepts/pages/) must be located within `src/pages/` and will have page routes generated automatically based on their file path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These [`.astro` pages](/en/core-concepts/astro-pages/) must be located within `src/pages/` and will have page routes generated automatically based on their file path.
```

---
import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';

// Get all `src/content/blog/` entries
const allBlogPosts = await getCollection('blog');

// Get all `src/pages/posts/` entries
const allPosts = await Astro.glob('../pages/posts/*.md');

const response = await fetch('https://randomuser.me/api/');
const data = await response.json();
const randomUser = data.results[0];
---
```

See more about [local files imports with `Astro.glob()`](/en/guides/imports/#astroglob) or [querying using the Collections API]([fetching remote data](/en/guides/data-fetching/)).

### Next Styling to Astro

Convert any inline style objects (`style={{fontWeight: "bold"}}`) to inline HTML style attributes (`style="font-weight:bold;"`). Or, use an Astro `<style>` tag for scoped CSS styles.

```jsx title="src/components/Card.jsx"
<div style={{backgroundColor: `#f4f4f4`, padding: `1em`}}>{message}</div>
```

```astro title="src/components/Card.astro"
<div style="background-color: #f4f4f4; padding: 1em;">{message}</div>
```

You may also need to replace any [CSS-in-JS libraries](https://github.com/withastro/astro/issues/4432) (e.g. styled-components) with other available CSS options in Astro.

> Tailwind is supported after installing the [Tailwind integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/tailwind/). No changes to your code are required!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Tailwind is supported after installing the [Tailwind integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/tailwind/). No changes to your existing Tailwind code are required!
```

                        <Link className={styles.pokemonContainer} as={`/pokemon/${pokemon.name}`} href="/pokemon/[name]">
                            <p className={styles.pokemonId}>No. {pokemon.id}</p>
                            <img className={styles.pokemonImage} src={`https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PokeAPI/sprites/master/sprites/pokemon/${pokemon.id}.png`} alt={`${pokemon.name} picture`}></img>
                            <h2 className={styles.pokemonName}>{pokemon.name}</h2>
                        </Link>
                    </li>
                ))}
            </ul>
        </>
    )
}

export const getStaticProps = async () => {
    const res = await fetch("https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon?limit=151")
    const resJson = await res.json();
    const pokemons = resJson.results.map(pokemon => {
        const name = pokemon.name;
        // https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon/1/
        const url = pokemon.url;
        const id = url.split("/")[url.split("/").length - 2];
        return {
            name,
            url,
            id
        }
    });
    return {
        props: {
            pokemons,
        },
    }
}
```

> 

Author: It feels like we should have something to clarify that the next subheadings will be migrating the above code from Next to Astro. I found it a bit confusing since it's one of the few places we have a heading break between Astro and Next code.

Maybe:

```suggestion

Migrate the above Next.js code to Astro by following the steps in the following subheadings.

```

Reviewer: It's a fair call-out. I was struggling with *wanting* our tl/dr 1. 2. 3. steps... and then wanting to jump into step 1 right after we've just said 3, which is why I switched to headings.

I'll think a bit more about this!

Reviewer: OK, so how we handled this in the Gatsby example was just showing ONE single example (the first one) so that none of the "tl/dr" ones were used, which meant we ignored this problem.  :sweat_smile: 

@crutchcorn Can you look at where the Gatsby guide ended up (only converting `layout.js` and make a similar call here: if we just took ONE file, even if that means we don't get the full app context here, and converted it. Which file is the most helpful to do? Can we cut it to one?

#### Create `src/pages/index.astro`

Use the return value of the Next function. Convert any Next or React syntax to Astro, including changing the case of any [HTML global attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes).

Note that:

- `.map` just works!

- `className` becomes `class`.

- `<Link>` becomes `<a>`.

- The `<> </>` fragment is not required in Astro templating.

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro" "class" "</a>" "<a"
---
---
<ul class="plain-list pokeList">
    {pokemons.map((pokemon) => (
        <li class="pokemonListItem" key={pokemon.name}>
            <a class="pokemonContainer" href={`/pokemon/${pokemon.name}`}>
                <p class="pokemonId">No. {pokemon.id}</p>
                <img class="pokemonImage" src={`https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PokeAPI/sprites/master/sprites/pokemon/${pokemon.id}.png`} alt={`${pokemon.name} picture`}/>
                <h2 class="pokemonName">{pokemon.name}</h2>
            </a>
        </li>
    ))}
</ul>
```

#### Add any needed imports, props and JavaScript

Note that:

- the `getStaticProps` function is no longer needed. Data from the API is fetched directly in the code fence.

> - The `<Layout>` component is imported, and wraps the page templating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [`<Layout>` component converted earlier]#next-base-layout-to-astro) is imported, and wraps the page templating.
```
I'd prefer this to an aside! What do you think?

```astro ins={2,4-16,19,31} title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
import Layout from '../layouts/layout.astro';

const res = await fetch("https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon?limit=151");
const resJson = await res.json();
const pokemons = resJson.results.map(pokemon => {
    const name = pokemon.name;
    // https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon/1/
    const url = pokemon.url;
    const id = url.split("/")[url.split("/").length - 2];
    return {
        name,
        url,
        id
    }
});
---

<Layout>
  <ul class="plain-list pokeList">
      {pokemons.map((pokemon) => (
          <li class="pokemonListItem" key={pokemon.name}>
              <a class="pokemonContainer" href={`/pokemon/${pokemon.name}`}>
                  <p class="pokemonId">No. {pokemon.id}</p>
                  <img class="pokemonImage" src={`https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PokeAPI/sprites/master/sprites/pokemon/${pokemon.id}.png`} alt={`${pokemon.name} picture`}/>
                  <h2 class="pokemonName">{pokemon.name}</h2>
              </a>
          </li>
      ))}
  </ul>
</Layout>
```

> 

Author: Do we want to add a shoutout back to our `Layout` port? It might seem obvious to us writing this, but I think reading is often non-linear with these types of guides.

Something akin to:

```suggestion

:::tip
Remember that this `Layout.astro` file [was migrated from our Next file and contains our styling and other contents.](#next-base-layout-to-astro)
:::

```

Reviewer: (See my inline suggestion above)

          <th>Types</th>
          <td>{pokemon.types}</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <th>Height</th>
          <td>{pokemon.height}</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <th>Weight</th>
          <td>{pokemon.weight}</td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
    <p class={styles.flavor}>{pokemon.flavorText}</p>
  </div>
</Layout>
```
#### Add any needed imports, props and JavaScript

1. Convert Next's `getStaticPaths()` function to Astro's `getStaticPaths()` by removing the `paths` route prefix and returning an array. (Otherwise, the functions are the same.) This function goes into Astro's code fence.

:::tip
Use `Astro.props` to access the `params` returned from the `getStaticPaths` function.
:::

```astro {4-11, 19} del={13-17} title="src/pages/pokemon/[name].astro"
---
import styles from '../../styles/pokemon-entry.module.css';

export const getStaticPaths = async () => {
  const res = await fetch("https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon?limit=151")
  const resJson = await res.json();
  const pokemons = resJson.results;

  return pokemons.map(({ name }) => ({
      params: { name },
    }))

  return {
  paths: pokemons.map(({ name }) => ({
    params: { name },

>   }))

Author: This is pretty hard to grok at first glance. Could we try replacing this with file tabs of Next -> Astro or even just having the full `getStaticPaths` for a before/after?

Reviewer: resolving because we're not using this example in the final version :partying_face:
